The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Butterflies and Moths of Teneriffe, by
A. E. Holt White

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Butterflies and Moths of Teneriffe

Author: A. E. Holt White

Editor: Rashleigh Holt White

Release Date: November 14, 2021 [eBook #66736]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Fiona Holmes and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
             http://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
             generously made available by The Internet Archive/American
             Libraries.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BUTTERFLIES AND MOTHS OF
TENERIFFE ***




Transcriber’s Notes

Hyphenation has been standardised.

Footnotes were moved to the ends of the text they pertain
to and numbered in one continuous sequence.

A Contents table has been created by the Transcriber and is
placed in the public domain.

    THE
    BUTTERFLIES AND MOTHS
    OF TENERIFFE.


[Illustration]




    THE BUTTERFLIES AND MOTHS
    OF TENERIFFE.

    BY

    A. E. HOLT WHITE.

    EDITED BY

    RASHLEIGH HOLT WHITE,
    VICE-PRESIDENT OF THE SELBORNE SOCIETY.

    ILLUSTRATED FROM THE AUTHOR’S DRAWINGS.


    London:
    L. REEVE & CO.,
    PUBLISHERS TO THE HOME, COLONIAL AND INDIAN GOVERNMENTS,
    6, HENRIETTA STREET, COVENT GARDEN.
    TENERIFFE: HAMILTON & CO., SANTA CRUZ.

    1894

    [_All rights reserved._]




                            πειρατα γαιης
  Τῇ περ ῤηίστη· βιοτὴ πέλει ἆνθρώποισιν·
  Οὐ νιφετὸς, οὕτ’ ἂρ χειμὼν πολὺς οὔτε ποτ’ ὄμβρος,
  Ἁλλ’αἰεὶ Ζεφύροιο λιγὺ πνείοντας ἀήτας
  ‘Ωκεανὸς ἀνίησιν ἀναψὐκειν ἀνθρώπους·

  HOMER, Od. iv.

       *       *       *       *       *

 Omnia bene describere, quæ in hoc mundo a Deo facta, aut naturæ creatæ
 viribus elaborata fuerunt, opus est non unius hominis, nec unius ævi.
 Hinc Faunæ et Floræ utilissimæ; hinc monographi præstantissimi.

  SCOPOLI, Ann. Hist. Nat.




  TO

  ELIZABETH MARY ODLING

  IN MEMORY OF

  MANY HAPPY DAYS SPENT WITH HER AND HER FATHER

  THE LATE ALFRED SMEE, F.R.S.

  THIS BOOK

  Is dedicated by

  HER AFFECTIONATE FRIEND

  THE AUTHOR.




  LONDON:
  PRINTED BY GILBERT AND RIVINGTON, LD.,
  ST. JOHN’S HOUSE, CLERKENWELL, E.C.




CONTENTS.

  PREFACE.
  INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER.
  HINTS AND SUGGESTIONS ON NETS, BREEDING-CAGES, Etc.
  KILLING AND SETTING BUTTERFLIES AND MOTHS, RELAXING-SPECIMENS, Etc.
  BUTTERFLIES.
  LIST OF BUTTERFLIES FOUND IN TENERIFFE.
  APPENDIX B.
  APPENDIX C.
  APPENDIX D.
  ALPHABETICAL INDEX OF GENERA AND SPECIES.
  DESCRIPTION OF PLATES.




PREFACE.


When the author left England, in the autumn of 1892, for a winter’s
sunshine in Teneriffe, it was by no means her intention to write on
the Lepidoptera of that Island. Soon after her arrival, however,
she was struck by two things; the want of any sort of interesting
out-door occupation (other than somewhat desultory riding expeditions)
experienced by her companions in exile, and the absence of any account
of the Lepidoptera of the Canary Islands, which would enable collectors
to name their specimens. It is her hope that the present publication
may be, at least to some extent, the means of remedying these
deficiences.

To a detailed description of the Lepidoptera of Teneriffe, so far as
they are at present known, an introductory chapter has been added, for
the benefit of novices in the study and collection of butterflies and
moths.

Those, for whom fresh air and a certain amount of exercise are
essential, can hardly find any more health-giving or light interesting
occupation than the practical study of Entomology.

This study lends an interest to excursions which might otherwise be
tedious, and leads the collector into all sorts of beautiful and
picturesque unexplored nooks and corners of the Island, which to the
ordinary traveller are quite unknown. Many visitors hardly ever extend
their wanderings farther than the Carretera (the one high road in
Teneriffe), and have no idea of the many beauties to be seen, or of
the interest that may be found in studying the Botany, as well as the
Entomology, of this most charming of the “Summer isles of Eden lying in
dark-purple spheres of sea.”

All the species and varieties of Teneriffe butterflies, with the
exception perhaps of three, are found between the months of November
and May; so that anyone staying there for the winter and spring months
may procure a tolerably perfect collection; more especially as the
different species found in Teneriffe are but twenty-nine, so far as is
at present known, all of which are now described. The author has been
fortunate enough to add four of these to the number previously known to
exist in the Island.

The most complete collection of moths which came under notice is in
the possession of Dr. Zorolo, of Villa Orotava, and this numbers about
seventy species and varieties. Forty-one moths are described out of
some fifty which were collected and studied by the author; and a list
of twenty-one others, chiefly small and of little interest to the
amateur collector, is appended.

Almost all the facts and particulars relating to the life history
of the Lepidoptera are the result of the personal experience of the
author, who is also responsible for the drawings from which the
illustrations have been reproduced.

It is believed that the Lepidoptera of the other six Islands are
largely similar to those of Teneriffe. (See Appendix A.)

The author desires to offer her best thanks to Señor Don Ramon Gomez,
of Puerto Orotava, for his kindness and courtesy in placing his large
collection of Lepidoptera at her disposal for study and illustration.

The Rev. O. A. Benthall has kindly given information upon specimens
which he has netted and observed; and the author is also indebted to
Dr. Zorolo, of Yilla Orotava, who has lent one or two rare specimens
for illustration. Kind assistance in naming some specimens has been
given by A. G. Butler, Ph.D., F.L.S., F.Z.S., and Mr. W. F. Kirby,
F.L.S., F.E.S., of the British Museum; and Mr. Bethune Baker, F.E.S.,
has been good enough to name some of the smaller moths.

  A. E. H. W.

_November 1893._




INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER.


Many persons who know little or nothing about butterflies may be
tempted to make a collection of them when they find themselves in a
semi-tropical land, which yields in great profusion such beautiful
creatures, whose brilliant colouring when grouped together has so
pleasing an effect. To such, a slight sketch of the life of a butterfly
may not be unacceptable.

Butterflies and moths belong to the order Lepidoptera or Scale-winged
insects. The different stages of growth of these insects are called
the--

 =_Ovum._=    =_Larva._=       =_Pupa._=      =_Imago._=
   Egg.     Caterpillar.     Chrysalis.     Butterfly.

The body consists of three parts: the head, the thorax, and the
abdomen. There are two pairs of wings, the upper and the lower; or,
as they are generally called, the fore and the hind wings. These are
covered with a downy substance, like feathered scales, which are most
beautiful when seen under a microscope, and vary much in form. It is
in these that the colouring-matter resides, which gives the beautiful
colour to different species. Lepidoptera have six legs; in some,
however, the fore-legs are so short and inconspicuous that the insect
almost appears to have only four legs. The proboscis or trunk is a
long flexible double tube through which the animal sucks the juices
of the flowers; it is curled up under the thorax like a watch-spring,
and expands at will. It varies much in length both in moths and
butterflies. The antennæ are the horns or feelers of the insect, and
are believed to contain the organs of smell. They vary much in size and
thickness, and are most important as regards the classification of the
different species of Lepidoptera. They are generally of considerable
length in a butterfly, increasing in thickness at the end till a sort
of long knob is formed.

Moths are distinguished from butterflies by a few simple
characteristics, which can be seen at a glance.

First, with some few exceptions, of which the Humming Bird Hawk moth
is one, moths are always found on the wing at dusk, or at night,
whereas butterflies take their flight by day. Secondly, the moth either
folds its wings close to its side or else spreads them out flat. The
butterfly, when at rest, as a rule keeps its wings straight up, face
to face, or else keeps up a fluttering motion, continually putting
them in this position. Thirdly, the body of a butterfly is small at
the waist, while that of the moth is larger, and of a more uniform
size. The antennæ are the most distinctive feature, those of the moth
being fine and long, and having no knob at the end. In some species
they are short and finely feathered the whole length, terminating in a
sharp point; this feature is generally distinctive of the male sex; the
Rufescens moth being an example. The Skipper family have antennæ like
the butterfly, but the body of a moth.

The butterfly or moth lays its egg (not more than a pin’s head in size)
on that particular plant or tree on which the caterpillar, that it will
shortly become, feeds. These look of much the same form to the naked
eye, but when magnified they are seen to be of many different shapes,
some being conical, others round, angular and many sided, &c., &c.
The colours also of the eggs are various, but most frequently they are
yellow, green, or greenish white. A microscopic examination of these
will prove both interesting and instructive.

The caterpillars, as soon as they emerge from the eggs, the time of
which varies with different species, at once commence to eat, and
continue to do so voraciously till they turn to the pupa state. This
being the case, they must be constantly supplied with fresh food
when kept in captivity, once certainly, if not twice a day. There
are, however, one or two varieties which cease to eat, and lie in a
semi-dormant state for some time before taking the form of a chrysalis;
the caterpillar of the Exoleta moth is an example of this. The greatest
cleanliness, together with good ventilation, freshness of food, and
regularity in feeding, are essential to keep all caterpillars in health.

If we watch the creature feeding, we shall observe that it takes the
leaf edgeways between its two fore-feet, ceaselessly moving its head
up and down, and taking a large piece of leaf at each mouthful. Some
moth-caterpillars are night-feeders, and so hide themselves under the
thickest leaves on which they feed, or else bury themselves in the
earth till night comes again.

Cannibal caterpillars are to be found on the potato-plants; they are of
rather a reddish brown colour, from an inch and a half to two inches
in length. The author was not very fortunate in rearing them to the
moth-stage; it is said that they should be fed on the young larvæ, and
possibly the specimens had caterpillars to feed on that were too old.
There is room for interesting experiments in Teneriffe on one, if not
more, species.

Many of the caterpillars are most beautifully coloured and marked.
Those of the Hawk-moth are usually the most brilliant, but, at the same
time, they are most delicate, and require the greatest attention as
regards freshness of food, ventilation, and cleanliness.

Some larvæ shed their skins twice only, others moult seven times; but
the majority effect this change four or five times. This is rather a
laborious process for them, and sometimes proves fatal. During the
process they cease feeding, but commence again with renewed vigour
after the change has taken place. The colourings and markings of the
new coat often vary from those of the one cast off, and an experienced
entomologist can tell the age of the caterpillar by the colour and
texture of the skin in many varieties. When the creature has passed
through the larva and arrived at the pupa state, it has at first a soft
and tender skin, through which parts of the future butterfly can be
clearly seen; this soon hardens, however, and forms a case impervious
to rain or other atmospheric influences.

Before taking the pupa form some caterpillars creep into holes and
crevices of walls and old buildings, others bury themselves in the
earth; some envelop themselves in a tissue of silk which they spin as a
silkworm does, and this case is called a cocoon. Other species draw a
leaf round their bodies, fastening it together with silk-like threads,
and so making a complete shelter for itself. The Aurifera caterpillar
is an example of this type, being commonly found in Teneriffe on the
potato plant, from the leaf of which it constructs its house. Still
further varieties suspend themselves to a bough or leaf head downwards.
There are other varieties which suspend themselves from the centre of
their bodies by silk-like threads, and use much ingenuity in so doing.

Many caterpillars are smooth, others rough and hairy. The hairy
specimens vary much, the hair of some being soft, long, and silky,
others having short stubby spikes rather than hairs sparsely dispersed
over the body. The hairy species (the Rufescens moth caterpillar being
one) use their hairy coats as a slight cocoon, and the hairy coat also,
it is said, serves as a protection from birds; at the same time the
hairs cause great irritation to the human skin if the caterpillars are
handled too freely. The acrid taste of some also protects them from
feathered enemies. When the insect has remained in the pupa state for
a sufficient length of time, which varies according to species from
a couple of weeks to a few months, the process of throwing off its
skin is quickly performed. Weather has much influence on the period
during which the pupa lies dormant. The Teneriffe winter of 1892-93 was
particularly warm, and all specimens emerged to the butterfly stage
somewhat earlier than usual.

A few days before the butterfly or moth appears, the pupa becomes less
lively, and at last splits its skin down the middle of the back, and
the insect squeezes first its head and front legs through the aperture.
This aperture soon enlarges, the pupa skin being very dry and giving
little resistance, and the creature emerges, its legs clinging to some
substance so that the wings are in a suspended position. These are
quite small at first and wet, but they expand very quickly, acquire
their full size, and become firm and stiff as the animal flutters and
crawls about. The insect then emits a quantity of reddish fluid, and
in a short time it is able to fly away. The duration of the life of
Lepidoptera varies much, most species living a few days or a few weeks,
but some hibernate. The flight of Lepidoptera is a very distinctive
feature of the different species, the larger, such as the Plexippus,
Chrysippus and Pandora, seem to sail through the air, sometimes rising
to a great height. The Cardui and Huntera have a much quicker and more
jerky flight, and are troublesome to net. A great many of the large
moths may be said to rush along, the Convolvuli being a very difficult
one to capture, and often escaping when it seems quite within the net.
Taking the flight of the majority of moths and butterflies, they seem
to be more active and stronger on the wing in Teneriffe than those of
the same species in England.

The food of Lepidoptera consists of honey which they take from the
flowers, or else a moisture which exudes from trees or plants. Their
food is always of a liquid form, and is sucked up through the proboscis
or long tongue. The Convolvuli moth hovers at dusk over flowers,
inserting its very long tube into the extremity of trumpet-shaped
blossoms.

When forming a collection of the Lepidoptera of Teneriffe, it seems a
pity that so many insects should be unnecessarily caught and destroyed,
and the author would earnestly beg all lovers and collectors of
the beautiful creatures to bear this in mind, as some of the rarer
varieties may otherwise stand a good chance of being exterminated.

The “muchachos” (Spanish boys) are all too eager to supply any
collector with specimens for a few “quartos,” and bring many poor
mutilated insects in the hope of finding a purchaser. A refusal to buy
the much befingered and dilapidated creatures does not deter them from
further pursuit, as they only endeavour to catch a greater quantity in
the hope of at last getting a good specimen which will find a buyer.
If collectors would only net them themselves, and not encourage the
indiscriminate way in which the boys pursue them, it would greatly tend
to preserve the different species.




HINTS AND SUGGESTIONS ON NETS, BREEDING-CAGES, ETC.


As some difficulty is experienced in Teneriffe by persons who arrive
there without already being provided with materials for collecting
Lepidoptera, the description of a few useful expedients resorted to may
be of service. A moderate knowledge of the Spanish language is a very
useful help towards obtaining any small necessaries, but the Spanish
shop-keepers are most obliging, and understand quickly by the help of a
very few words what is wanted.

A butterfly-net is one of the first requisites, so some wire must be
bought at the tin-smiths, of whom there are several in Orotava. With
a little instruction he will make it into a ring about one foot in
diameter, with a socket of tin soldered on to it. Into this socket an
ordinary walking-stick can be fixed for a handle. The stick is useful
to walk with over the rough ground when not required for the net, and
the net can be easily carried with other necessaries one has to take on
an expedition.

Mosquito-netting answers the purpose of green gauze for the net. Gauze
is the best, however, and can be purchased in England, but not in
Orotava. The mosquito-netting gets soft and pliable by use, but it
is best to scald it in hot water before making it into a net, so as
to insure a soft substance in which to catch the fragile creatures
without injuring their wings or plumage. The net should be made round
at the bottom, and be about a yard in length. Purchase a yard of
mosquito-netting; it is sold two yards in width, and the quantity which
is not used for the net serves to cover the breeding-cages, which are
about to be described.

Another essential is a breeding-cage for caterpillars, and, as several
are required if many butterflies and moths are to be reared, the
following plan is a good one to adopt. Procure a small wooden box,
about 6 or 8 inches long, or even larger, and about 3 inches deep;
empty chocolate boxes are serviceable for the purpose. In each corner
fix upright, with a couple of tacks, a piece of cane about 8 or 10
inches in length. Over this stretch a piece of mosquito-netting,
tacking it to the edge of the box all round, except at one side, where
it should be left loose, so as to be fastened down at will with two
or three stout pins. The loose side can then be raised to give the
caterpillars fresh food, and to remove dirt or refuse. Breeding-cages
that one can purchase at any naturalists’ outfitters are made very
handily of wood, zinc, and glass, and of course are very durable, but
those described above last well for a season, and have the merit of
being of no expense.

To procure good moths and butterflies with bright and uninjured
plumage, it is best to rear them from the caterpillar stage of
development, but as all varieties are not easily found, the net is
usually the collector’s first resource. Raising caterpillars from
the egg is a very interesting process, but it is rather tedious, and
requires more knowledge and experience to meet with success than
finding the insects in the next stage of development, and keeping them
till they reach the perfect state.

When starting for a day’s ramble butterfly-hunting, one of the great
charms seems to be the delightful uncertainty about the sport which may
fall to one’s lot, so it is as well to provide for all contingencies,
taking the net, poison-box, or bottle, a tin for caterpillars (which
should be perforated at the top), a nest of glass-topped pill-boxes for
specimens of any butterfly or moth one may wish to take home alive, and
envelopes for butterflies when killed in the net. The latter may be
made of note-paper, by cutting a long square of paper and folding it in
a triangular shape, and then turning up the edges of two sides, so as
to make a little bag.

Butterflies travel well placed flat in these envelopes, and should
be set directly home is reached. A small cork collecting-box is
also useful, together with some insect-pins, in case one gets many
specimens, some of which can be pinned into the box preparatory to
setting them on the return home.

Insect life is so prolific in Teneriffe, and one sees so many strange
and curious animals, that anyone really interested in Entomology is
certain to find specimens to bring home, such as the “Praying Mantis,”
found frequently on half dead thistles in “barrancos” and on shrubs,
the many varieties of large grasshopper, and the gorgeous coloured
dragon-flies flitting about and killing butterflies in a rather
wholesale manner.

All these insects are of such interest, that it is as well to be
provided with various appliances for carrying them on the homeward
journey.

As sunshine and brightness prevail in Teneriffe during the winter
months, it is not necessary to choose a “likely” day, as in England,
in order to have a good day’s sport, indeed there seem to be more
butterflies on the wing on the days that are not too brilliant. On the
very sunshiny days the butterflies are about in the greatest quantities
in the early morning, retiring at noon to more shady or sheltered
spots. A nice quiet sheltered little dell, covered with rough herbage
and cactus by the sides of the barrancos, is a very favourite spot. The
barrancos are dry river-beds, sometimes of great extent, with large
boulders and rocks thrown about in wild confusion; generally speaking
they are intersected by a path, up which one can ride or walk, leading
up the mountains to different villages and hamlets.

Occasionally, during the winter months, a great quantity of water runs
down the barrancos, but the supply only lasts a short time, soon drying
up, and leaving a few small stagnant pools here and there, and these in
turn soon disappear.

Walking over much ground is hard work, as the country is steep, and
rough with stones and rocks. I advocate strongly the use of mules, as
being the most pleasant mode of locomotion. They are so sure-footed and
easy in their quick walk, that one feels far less tired after a long
day’s excursion on mule-back up the mountains and barrancos, than by
any other mode of locomotion. The muleteer carries all necessaries,
together with luncheon, and one is able to stop and alight where fancy
dictates or butterflies abound. Mules can be hired at Villa Orotava,
the charge being one dollar, or five pesetas, for a short day; beyond
this a small gratuity to the muleteer makes him pleased and happy.

There are many completely uncultivated spots up the mountains,
intersected by little bye-paths along which the mules can walk; these
are perfect “Eldorados” for moths and butterflies, and one must be
busy with net and poison-box, not forgetting the tin case in which to
place larvæ for the breeding-cage, and especially remembering to carry
home some of the plant upon which they feed.

Some of these places are so rough and thick with bramble growth, and
vegetation of like nature, that walking is really hard work. The
lava-rocks are sharp, and the numerous grasses with hooks, such as
the “Amour Sec,” together with the thorns of the prickly pear, make a
formidable barrier for the pedestrian. There are, however, no poisonous
snakes to dread, no biting animals of any sort larger than flies, so
that the inconvenience of the thorns and pricks is all that need be
feared.

On returning home from the expedition, all the various wants and
requirements of the specimens must be attended to. The caterpillars
have to be put into breeding-cages, which should have been already
prepared for them. Different kinds which feed on the same plant may
be put together. Care must, however, be taken not to put any cannibal
species, such as the Armigera, among the others; also moth and
butterfly larvæ should be kept separate.

For moth larvæ it is essential to have some fine earth (previously
baked to destroy the ants, which are very troublesome) spread on
the bottom of the box, from 1 to 2 inches thick. The caterpillars
bury themselves in this when they have finished feeding, making for
themselves a slight mould of earth, welded together with silk-like
threads. Different species, however, vary in their mode of procedure,
some making very slight, and others more pronounced cocoons; while yet
others make quite an oval shell, choosing only the finest grains of
earth with which to construct their houses.

It is said that some sort of dried leaf answers the purpose of earth,
and is less likely to injure the moth’s plumage, but the former mode
has been found to be perfectly successful. Place the plant on which the
animal is to feed in a moist pot of earth, or in a bottle of water, so
as to keep it fresh. If the latter mode is adopted, care must be taken
that the animal does not drop into the water; so it is best to choose
a wide-mouthed bottle, putting a bung with a hole in it as a stopper,
and inserting the plant through the hole into the water. The earth
should be kept slightly moist, and many people give caterpillars a
gentle spray of water occasionally to take the place of dew, which they
would have in their natural state. It is a good plan to let them have a
little of the early morning sun upon them, as it serves to keep them in
health, but they cannot bear the sun of mid-day.

For butterfly larvæ the same procedure is required, except that only
a thin sprinkling of earth is wanted at the bottom of the box for the
purposes of cleanliness.

When the larva of the butterfly is about to develop to its pupa state,
it readily crawls up the box and netting, suspending itself, from the
top head-downwards, and the netting serves as a good foot-hold for the
butterfly when it appears. If possible the chrysalides should remain as
they place themselves until the next stage of development is reached;
because, unless they are able to expand their wings while in this
position, deformity is likely to ensue.

The majority of butterfly chrysalides are naked, and of an angular
form, some being remarkable for the brilliancy with which they are
spotted with gold and silver.

The Vanessa family is an example of this, the Vulcania and Huntera
being especially brilliant.

Caterpillars of the “Skipper” family make a web-like covering of silk
for the reception of the chrysalides, but there has been hitherto only
one species of this family found in Teneriffe.

Many caterpillars of various kinds kept during the winter months were
very subject to the raids of the Ichneumon fly. This fly lays its egg
on the larva, and it is not easily perceived on the animal unless
looked for through a magnifying-glass.

The caterpillar lives on, and seemingly thrives, but after it has
turned to its pupa state the fly develops, and a fine Ichneumon fly
appears in the breeding-cage instead of the expected butterfly. There
are large and small varieties of this fly, the former laying only one
or two eggs on the caterpillar, the latter a great many, and they
emerge from the chrysalis in corresponding numbers.[1] The only remedy
seems to be to inspect all larvæ through a magnifying-glass, and to
reject any infected specimens. Pieris Cheiranthi is particularly
liable to this fly. The red fungus found on the Tithymali moth
caterpillar is another disease, but is not very common.

[1] This occurrence is mentioned by Gilbert White in his “Natural
History of Selborne,” v. “Observations on Insects and Vermes,”  p. 519.
Ed. 1813.

Caterpillars should be handled as little as possible while removing
them to their fresh food. As a rule, they crawl on to the fresh supply
at once, but in the case of very small specimens a camel-hair brush
should be used to lift them from one place to another. Many of them
emit a fluid when touched. The Tithymali spits out a quantity of green
fluid when disturbed.

Butterflies generally seem to be found in the greatest numbers in the
barrancos early in the year. When, however, the fields get green and
vegetation increases, they desert the barrancos and take more to the
fields and country, with the exception of the Argynnis Lathonia, a
variety which more particularly frequents barrancos.

The time of appearance of all species takes place from two to four
weeks later the higher they are up the mountains. The south part of the
island is not so fertile a place for Lepidoptera as the north; perhaps
this is owing to the more sparse vegetation on that side.

Many species are found inland, while some are peculiar to the coast.
The heights and localites in which all the different kinds are found
have been indicated as far as possible in the description of the
various species.




KILLING AND SETTING BUTTERFLIES AND MOTHS, RELAXING-SPECIMENS, ETC.


Butterflies, when netted, can be easily killed by a prolonged sharp
pinch under the thorax before being taken from the net, and do not
need to be put into a poison-box. The pinch should be given between
the finger and thumb, the wings of the insect being kept in an upright
position.

Moths must be put into a poison-bottle or box, and left there from
twelve to twenty-four hours. Some varieties die much quicker than
others. Various kinds of poison are used for the boxes and bottles, but
cyanide of potassium seems most generally approved of by entomologists.
To catch moths, many people use the sugaring process. A mixture, made
of beer, rum, and coarse sugar or treacle, boiled till it becomes
thick like treacle is placed at night on the trunks of trees or on
flowers, and a lamp is placed near the sugared plants. True votaries
of “sweetness and light,” the moths alight on the sticky mixture, and,
becoming stupefied with the beer and rum, as a rule fall to the ground,
where they can easily be caught or netted.

Setting-boards are made of strips of wood about one foot or eighteen
inches in length, varying in width according to the size of the
specimen one wishes to pin out on it. These boards are covered with
sheet cork, having a groove down the middle to receive the body of the
insect. Some boards have a flat, others a slightly curved surface, and
these are covered with white paper. English entomologists generally use
curved boards, but foreign collectors prefer the flat setting-boards.
These latter seem somewhat preferable.

The good appearance and value of a collection greatly depend on the
setting, and for this reason much care and patience is required. The
butterfly should be taken between the thumb and finger of the left
hand, and an insect-pin inserted in the middle of the thorax, bringing
the point slightly sloping backwards and out at the legs. Then having
selected a board suitable in size to the specimen, it should be
pinned exactly in the middle of the groove, the body being kept quite
straight. Two narrow strips of paper, not more than ⅛th of an inch in
width, are now required to fasten down the two wings on each side of
the groove. Let each strip be pinned in front of the two fore-wings,
holding the end of a strip in the left hand; then very gently place the
wings, first the fore and then the hind-wing, in position, bringing
them forward with a long pin (the point being placed on the wings as
near the body as possible) in the right hand. At the same time the
strip of paper which is being held in the left hand is gently lowered
and fastened with a pin immediately below the hind-wing. Great care
must be taken not to injure the plumage by touching it. A second strip
of paper is now necessary on each side to pin down the outer edges of
the wings; but the first two strips are the most important ones, as
they keep the wings in position, and the latter may be very easily
added. The antennæ should be straightened and placed under the first
two strips of paper, or placed in position by two pins. The paper is
fastened along the boards, fixing as many specimens as its length will
permit.

Many persons use triangular pieces of card as braces for the butterfly,
fixing one or more on each wing, but the strips of paper seem somewhat
easier to arrange, and damage the plumage even less than the card,
though when either method is adopted the specimen ought not to be
damaged in the least. In making a perfect collection of butterflies
three specimens should be set up of every variety; the male, the
female, and one set with the underside uppermost. It is not usual to
set moths the reverse way.

Butterflies must be left on the board to stiffen for ten days or a
fortnight; after that they can be removed to the store-box. Moths with
large bodies take longer in drying, and must be left for three or four
weeks. By touching the end of the body of a specimen gently with a
pin it can easily be seen whether it is firm and stiff enough to be
removed to the case. If butterflies and moths are not set soon after
death they become stiff, and would be useless; but there are several
modes of relaxing them, and it may be useful to give a description
of the process which is generally adopted. Procure a marmalade-pot or
earthenware jar, into which put three inches of sand; pour on the sand
enough water to wet it thoroughly, without allowing the water to appear
on the surface. It is as well to put a small quantity of carbolic acid
with it. The insects to be relaxed should be pinned on to a thick
piece of cork, the cork resting on the top of the sand. Close the
mouth of the jar with a piece of glass, or something which will make
it air-tight. A few hours is often enough to relax specimens, but if
left longer they must be carefully watched, as they very soon become
mouldy. To keep the insects free from mites, napthaline must be freely
used in the store-boxes and cases. Camphor is used by some persons,
but napthaline is a far more efficacious preventive of the ravages of
parasites.

In packing specimens already set for England, store-boxes will hold a
great number if the specimens are judiciously placed one over the other
in a sloping manner, great care being taken that they do not touch each
other, as the slightest rubbing spoils the plumage.

Don Ramon Gomez, chemist, of Puerto Orotava, Teneriffe, has all
necessaries for the collector, such as setting-boards, store-boxes,
pins, etc., etc., and is most obliging in packing specimens for England
and giving any advice.

Many interesting objects for the naturalist and antiquarian may be seen
in his large collection, his Guanche remains being especially deserving
of notice.




Part I.

BUTTERFLIES.


PIERIS CHEIRANTHI.

PLATE I.--FIG. 2.

This is a large creamy-white butterfly peculiar to the Canary Islands.
It is found in some numbers on and near the coast of Teneriffe
from April to September; the time of its appearance, however,
varies somewhat in different years. The larva is smooth, and has a
ground-colour of grey, finely dotted over with black spots. There
is a yellow stripe on the back and along each side. It feeds on the
nasturtium gregariously, and the pupa attaches itself, head downwards,
to a wall near the plant.

The female butterfly, the underside of which is illustrated, has a long
uneven blotch of black on the surface of the fore-wings; the male has
none. The upper surface of both sexes is cream-white, with a black
apical patch on the fore-wings. The under-sides have the long black
blotch as seen on the surface of the female, and the ground-colour
of both is yellow, finely sprinkled with black dots. The measurement
across the wings varies from two and a half to three and a half inches.

It is best to procure the larvæ to obtain good specimens, but
the Ichneumon fly is such an enemy to this species that great
disappointment will probably be experienced in the rearing if the
caterpillars are not well examined before being placed in the
breeding-cages.


PIERIS WOLLASTONI.

PLATE I.--FIG. 1.

This butterfly is allied to the Cheiranthi, but is a distinct variety,
only recently met with in this island. Mr. Butler, of the British
Museum, has named and fully described this insect, which has hitherto
only been found in Madeira, but is now for the first time enumerated
in the list of Teneriffe Lepidoptera. It is somewhat smaller than the
Cheiranthi, measuring not more than two and a half inches in expanse.
The reverses of the female (which is illustrated) and of the male are
of a grey tinge, in place of the rather bright yellow shade of the
Cheiranthi, sprinkled over with fine black dots. The apical patch is
also grey, and both sexes have long black spots on the fore-wings. The
upper surface is cream-white; the female has two distinctly marked long
black spots on the fore-wings; the male having none. The black apical
markings are similar in both sexes, and a small black spot is seen on
the inner margin of the hind-wing of both male and female.

There are no observations to record on the caterpillar and pupa, as
the specimens of the fly (one of which is illustrated) were netted;
but very possibly larvæ may be found gregariously with the Cheiranthi
in like manner to the Callirrhoe and Atalanta, or the Plexippus and
Chrysippus.

The specimens taken were netted about 500 feet above the sea.


PIERIS RAPÆ.

The common English variety, Small Cabbage White. The fore-wings are
creamy white, with an irregular blackish mark at the tip. The male
generally has a black spot in the middle of the wing, the female having
two; and both sexes have two black spots on the underside, which is
of a yellowish colour, thickly dotted with small black atoms. All
the markings vary greatly, however. The larva is dull green, with a
yellowish stripe on its back and yellow dots on the side. It generally
feeds on the cabbage, but is found also on the nasturtium. It is very
common, and may be found everywhere from February to October. The
Ichneumon fly is a great enemy to this insect.


PIERIS DAPLIDICE.

This butterfly resembles the rare English specimen Bath White.
It is very common in some years,[2] and found in most localities
from February to October. It seems mostly to frequent rough
poorly-cultivated fields. The wings are white, the fore-wings having
a large black spot in the middle, and being bordered with black
encircling distinct white spots. The markings of the under-side show
through on the hind-wings, and these have black markings on the edges
in the female. The underside has a ground colour of sage-green, freely
spotted with white. The markings show considerable variety, some being
marked much more heavily than others. It measures across the wings from
two to two and a half inches. The caterpillar, which is greyish green,
has yellow stripes on the back, and feeds generally on cabbage. The
butterflies are much pursued and destroyed by dragon-flies.

[2] During the winter of 1892-1893 it was met with in great numbers.

EUCHLOË CHARLONIA (Donzil).

PLATE I.--FIG. 4.

This butterfly was seen near Orotava, 500 feet above the sea-level,
during the first week in May by the author, who, however, was not
fortunate enough to secure a specimen. Several specimens of this
species, which is rare in the Canary Islands, have been netted in the
island of Fuerteventura, and two of them have been presented by Mr. E.
H. Hodges, of Rugby, to the British Museum, from which the illustration
has been drawn. It measures in expanse about an inch and a half. The
general colour is yellow, varying in intensity of shade in different
specimens, with black apical markings on the fore wings and a long
black patch on the centre of the upper margin. A full account of this
interesting insect is to be found in Ann. Soc. Ent. Fr., 1842, p. 197,
f. 1, but hitherto it has not been recognized in Teneriffe as a species
belonging to the island. It is found in North and West Africa.


APORIA CRATÆGI.

This specimen is the rare English Black-veined White butterfly. It has
undoubtedly been netted in Teneriffe, though it has not been personally
observed by the author. In flight its similarity to other white
specimens is so great that it may often be passed unnoticed. It is said
to be local and uncertain in appearance, being seen chiefly during the
summer months about the fields and gardens. The wings are entirely of a
white cream colour, and are alike on both sides, the veins being black,
and the fore-wings having some dusky spots on them. The caterpillar is
black, thickly sprinkled with whitish hairs, and with a reddish yellow
stripe running along each side. It feeds on various fruit trees, and is
believed to be very destructive.


RHODOCERA CLEOBULE.

PLATE I.--FIG. 3.

This finely-coloured and beautiful butterfly resembles the English
Brimstone, but is quite a distinct variety, being of squarer form and
having no decided point at the angle of the hind-wings. It is peculiar
to the Islands. The male is a most brilliant sulphur yellow, the
fore-wings being of a deeper shade than the hind ones. The hind-wings
have a deep orange spot about the centre. The female differs from the
male in being of a much paler shade of yellow, with quite a tinge of
green all over it; it also has a small orange spot on the fore-wings in
addition to that on the hind-wings. Both wings have red markings round
them on the outer edge, which form an almost interrupted fine line of
colour. The underside resembles the upper, but is paler. The antennæ
are short and thick, with a reddish tinge, which becomes deeper at the
knob.

It is found from January to June in most localities on and at a little
distance from the coast; gardens and fields seem somewhat favoured,
but it is by no means common anywhere. There seem to be several broods
between the months mentioned above, but the larva and pupa have not
been observed.


COLIAS EDUSA.

PLATE I.--FIG. 5 (female).

This specimen is the English Clouded Yellow. The wings measure from two
to two and a half inches across, the female being somewhat larger than
the male. Both sexes have the same broad black margin on the fore and
hind-wings, but the male differs from the female in having no irregular
yellow spots marked on these black borders, which are seen in the
female. The hind-wings of the female are of a somewhat darker shade
of yellow, tinged with green, than those of the male, and both sexes
have a bright orange spot about the middle of the wing. Beneath, both
sexes are alike, the fore-wings being of a lighter orange with several
irregular black spots and a margin of greenish yellow. The hind-wings
are of a uniform green colour with a red ringed spot about the centre
of each, accompanied by a silver-like dot in the middle. It is found in
quantities in most localities, from the coast to the pine forests, from
February to November. The caterpillar is green, with a stripe of yellow
and white, having several orange dots on it. It is a miscellaneous
feeder, preferring, however, leguminous plants.


COLIAS v. HELICE.

PLATE I.--FIG. 6.

A pale yellowish-white variety of the former specimen. It is very
rare, and is found in May and during the summer months, though very
seldom met with in England.[3] It is slightly smaller than the Colias
Edusa, and has been found so small as to measure only an inch across
the wings. Don Ramon Gomez has one in his collection of this size. The
markings vary considerably, and the bright orange spot in the centre of
the hind-wing, as seen in the illustration, is replaced occasionally
by a pure white one. The male has hitherto not been found.

[3] In the summer of 1892 many were taken.


LYCÆNA BÆTICA.

A commonly found blue butterfly, measuring from one to one and a half
inches across the wings. It is rarely met with in England. The insect
has a slender tail at the lower angle of each hind-wing, surmounted by
two black dots. The margins of both wings have a slight black or dark
brown band. The under-sides of both wings are of a grey-brown colour
streaked and slightly spotted all over with faint white lines. On the
lower angle of each hind-wing the two black spots on the upper side
are replaced by two black ones dusted with silver, and surrounded by a
bright orange ring which is broader at the top than at the bottom.

The antennæ are brown, slightly sprinkled with white. It is found on
the rough fields (especially where the Lupine grows), barrancos, and
hedge-rows, between March and August. Specimens netted early in the
year are not so large as those found during May, and in the summer
months.


LYCÆNA WEBSIANA.

PLATE I.--FIGS. 7 AND 8.

This is a smaller blue butterfly than that just described, measuring
about one inch across the wings. It is peculiar to the Islands, and
is known by some lovers of Entomology as the “Peak Blue.” It is not,
however, found on the Peak alone, but is netted in barrancos and
gardens at a much lower altitude; it frequents the pine forests in
large numbers, and has been also found on the south coast of the
Island of Teneriffe, at Guimar (see Appendix B), so it may be fairly
considered to be widely dispersed over the Island. It is undoubtedly
found in the greatest numbers in the elevated zone of the pine forests,
where, however, owing to the extremely slippery nature of the ground,
it is difficult to net. The male is of a beautiful metallic blue
colour; the female of a much browner blue. The upperside of the male,
and the underside of the female, are shown in the illustrations.

The fore-wings of the underside in both sexes are alike, being of an
orange tawny colour, with a white uneven spot on the top margin of
each wing, and five or six somewhat indistinct brown spots at the outer
edge, interspersed with white.

The hind-wings are of an ashy brown, with a longitudinal, irregular
silver white line down each, both wings being minutely dotted with
white. Five or six brown spots, dusted with silver, are seen at the
margin of the hind-wings. It usually appears in March, though it has
been seen at an earlier date. The larva and pupa have not hitherto been
found.


LYCÆNA LYSIMON.

This is the smallest specimen of blue butterfly found in Teneriffe,
being not quite one inch in expanse. The female is rather a browner
blue than the male. The colouring on the upperside is of a most
beautiful uniform blue, all the wings having a margin of brown; and a
slight white fringe at the edges. The underside of all the wings is
grey, rather freely dotted over with darker spots, encircled by greyish
white. It is very commonly found on all grassy fields and lanes, and
quantities flutter quickly along the grass-grown streets of Orotava
from April to August.

It is not an inhabitant of England, but is found in the south of
France, Spain, greater part of Africa, Western Asia, and the East
Indies. The caterpillar and chrysalis have not been observed.


LYCÆNA ASTRARCHE v. ÆSTIVA.

PLATE II.--FIG. 6.

A small dark copper, the expanse of wings being about one inch, or
rather more. It is not found in England. On the upperside on all the
wings there is a marginal band of bright copper, the fore-wings have a
black spot about the centre of each. A fringe of white edges all the
four wings. The under widely differs from the upper side in colouring
and markings. The ground colour is light grey, freely dotted over with
black spots encircled by white. All four wings have the same bright
marginal copper band as seen on the upper side. The antennæ are black
or dark brown, finely dotted with white. It is somewhat rarely found
in fields and barrancos on high ground, but may be met with in larger
quantities in the pine forests. The time of its appearance is from
April to September. When comparing the Teneriffe specimen of this
butterfly with those of other countries at South Kensington, it was
noticed that the marginal copper band was broader on the Teneriffe
specimen, and it may be possible that it should be reckoned as a new
variety.


POLYOMMATUS or CHRYSOPHANUS PHLÆAS.

A copper butterfly, and a common English specimen, measuring from one
to one and a half inches across the wings. The fore-wings are of a
bright copper red, with large square black spots distinctly marked,
and an outer band of brown. The hind-wings are dark brown, having a
marginal copper band on the outer edge, which in some specimens is
surmounted by a few blue spots. The underside of the fore-wings is pale
copper, the hind-wings being grey, with minute black or dark brown
spots, and traces of a marginal band of copper. It is commonly found
from February to September in most places in Teneriffe, up to the
altitude of the pine forests. The larva feeds on a variety of Rumex
(dock or sorrel). Some specimens have been found much darker in colour
than those described above, the difference being so great as to suggest
the possibility of a distinct variety.


THECLA RUBI.

This small butterfly is called in England the Green Hair Streak, It
is said to have been netted in the Island during the summer months,
and its appearance is believed to be well authenticated. The larva
is green, with a yellow line on the back, bordered with darker, and
followed by a line of pale triangular spots, and a yellow line on the
sides: it lives on brambles, &c. The fly expands about one inch; it is
of a uniform brown colour above, and a uniform green below, with a row
of white dots on the underside of the hind-wings.


DANAIS PLEXIPPUS, formerly ARCHIPPUS.

PLATE II.--FIG. 1.

The largest butterfly found in the Islands, measuring from four to four
and a half inches across the wings.

The larva is very bright in colour, having transverse bands of blackish
violet, gold, and white alternately. It has four black horns or fleshy
spikes along its back, and when full grown measures about two inches in
length, and it is rather stout and smooth. The pupa, green when first
turned, and suspending itself by the tail only, has a bright gold band
half-way round its base, and a series of gold spots encircling its
head. Shortly before emerging to a butterfly, it turns to a dark brown.
The caterpillar never suspends itself to the plant on which it feeds,
but goes to some of the higher grasses near it, or it prefers still
better a mallow plant, from the leaves of which as many as sixteen
beautiful bright green and gold chrysalides have been seen hanging,
forming quite a picture under the illumination of the glorious sun of
Teneriffe. It lives and feeds gregariously on the “Arbol de Seda,”
[4] a plant bearing a very bright red and gold flower. Many specimens
were reared from quite small caterpillars in the breeding-cages. They
were easy to keep, but especial care must be taken in providing them
with fresh food, and great attention ought to be paid to ventilation,
or some disappointment may be experienced in the number that die during
the pupa state for no apparent reason. A little of the morning sun is
beneficial to them, as they are found, when in a natural state, in the
most sunny localities.

[4] Asclepias cuvassavica.

A brood seems to emerge about every three months in most years from
February to September. The butterfly frequents flower-gardens and
fields near the coast, not often being found more than seven or eight
hundred feet above the sea. It is of a rich orange tawny colour, rather
heavily veined with black or dark brown. All four wings have a broad
black border, with two lines of whitish yellow dots along the margin.
There is a large apical patch of blackish brown on each fore-wing, with
seven large yellow and white spots on the tip. There is not a great
difference between the upper and the under side, except that on the
latter the white marginal spots are larger, and there is more white on
the black-feathered body.

The insect looks splendidly bright and flashing as it soars along with
a steady flight from tree to tree on the “Carretera,” and it must
be quickly netted, or it soon rises out of reach. These butterflies
are distasteful to birds, as also are the three following varieties
belonging to the same family. For this reason the family of Danais
is “mimicked” by butterflies of other species, the butterfly next
described (Danais Chrysippus) being, for instance, copied closely by
several African and Indian species of butterflies and even some moths.

The Danais Plexippus is a very common butterfly in North America, and
has within the last few years become widely dispersed, some specimens
having been found in England in 1877 and subsequently.


DANAIS CHRYSIPPUS.

PLATE II.--FIG. 2.

This butterfly is widely dispersed over Europe, Asia, and Africa, but
it is not found in England. It is of the same colour as the last
described specimen, but is not so large, measuring in expanse from two
and a half to three and a half inches. The tips of the fore-wings are
broadly marked with black, shading off to brown, crossed with a band of
white spots. Four of these spots are of a quadrilateral form, and much
larger than the rest. The outer margins of all four wings are bordered
with black, freely dotted with white. There are three black spots on
the centre of the hind-wings of the female; the male has four, the
fourth, which is largest, being placed under the principal vein. The
under is similar in markings and colouring to the upper side, but the
white spots are more pronounced, and the tawny yellow somewhat paler;
the apex of each fore-wing is moreover tipped with yellow, instead
of being black like the upperside. The larva is very similar to that
of the Plexippus. It is somewhat smaller, however, has six fleshy
horns instead of four, and the transverse gold and black stripes are
interspersed with white spots instead of stripes. It feeds gregariously
with the above variety on the “Arbol de Seda,” and appears at the same
time, in the same locality, and in equal numbers. When it changes to
the pupa state it resembles closely the bright green chrysalis of its
companion, only it is not quite so large.


DANAIS ALCIPPOIDES.

PLATE II.--FIG. 3.

This butterfly, a variety of the Chrysippus, is rare in Teneriffe.
It is found commonly in Africa and Western Asia, and is a transition
variety between the Chrysippus and Alcippus. It has whitish hind-wings,
rather silvery looking, with orange markings within the black border.
The hind-wings have less white upon them than those of the Alcippus. It
is similar in all respects and habits, mode of feeding, etc., to the
Chrysippus, and is found gregariously with it. When kept collectively,
about one in fifty of the chrysalides proves to be of this variety. The
caterpillars of the three varieties of Danais described are about four
weeks before turning to chrysalides, and remain in that state from two
to three weeks before emerging to the imago.


DANAIS DORIPPUS v. KLUGII.

This is the fourth variety of the genus Danais, and is authentically
claimed as one of the Teneriffe butterflies, though by no means
commonly found. It varies from the Chrysippus in having no brown apical
patch on the fore-wings, and it also has no band of white spots across
them. It measures from two and a half to three and a half inches across
the wings. It is not an inhabitant of England, but is commonly found in
North Africa and Western Asia.


ARGYNNIS MAIA (Cram), or PANDORA.

PLATE III.--FIGS. 1 AND 2.

This butterfly is one of the most beautiful Fritillarys, and is also
one of the largest of Teneriffe butterflies, measuring in expanse from
three and a half to four inches.

It mostly frequents woods and meadows, not often being met with below
an altitude of fifteen hundred feet above the sea. It is found in South
Europe, and is also met with in Africa. The time of its appearance
commences in May, and continues during the summer months. The larva is
purplish-brown with black markings; it feeds on heartsease. The upper
and under side differ greatly, as may be seen in the illustrations. The
prevailing colour of the upper surface is a beautiful bronze green,
tinged with yellow on the fore-wings. The bronze green colour is freely
marked all over by velvety black oblong spots, dashes, and lines,
the margin of each wing having a continuous scalloped line of black.
The body and hind-wings are very feathered and downy. The underside
of the fore-wings is a brilliant pink-red and black colour, with an
apical patch of green, having yellow markings. The hind-wings are green
with a long irregular stripe of silver down the centre of each, the
stripe being fringed on the outer edge by five silver dots. There is a
marginal silver band with a fine yellow line running along the outer
edge of the hind-wings. The body is green on the upper, and buff-yellow
on the under-side, the legs being of the latter colour. There is not
much difference between the male and female.


ARGYNNIS LATHONIA.

PLATE III.--FIGS. 3 AND 4.

This exquisite butterfly, which is about two inches in expanse, is
known in England, where it is accounted a great rarity, by the common
name Queen of Spain Fritillary, and it is not very commonly found in
Teneriffe. The caterpillar is a greyish brown with a white dorsal line,
spotted with black, and having two brownish lines on the sides. The
spines are reddish and the legs yellow. It feeds on the heartsease,
violet, etc. The upper surface is a tawny orange colour with many
distinct rounded black spots. On the under-side the hind-wings are
brownish yellow with very large oval silver spots interspersed with
smaller ones. The fore-wings have black spots of various sizes, and
five or six apical silver spots. The butterfly is found mostly on high
ground in barrancos; but also in fields and gardens from the months of
March to September, though in some years it appears earlier. It flits
quickly along the paths in the barrancos, settling at short distances,
very often just out of reach of the net, and this liveliness often
necessitates a long walk after a specimen. The antennæ are furnished
with a round thick nob at the end. There is no very marked difference
in the male and female.


PYRAMEIS ATALANTA.

PLATE III.--FIG. 7.

This richly-coloured butterfly, known in England as the Red Admiral,
is very rare in the Canary Islands. The ground-colour of the upper
surface of the fore-wings is a velvety black, shading off to brown at
the base. A bright red oblique band crosses the wings, and four large
oblong white spots, with four or five smaller ones, are grouped on the
apex. These again are bordered by several faint blue spots, quite at
the tip. The hind-wings are blackish brown, with a broad red margin,
in which are four black dots, and some blue spots are marked on the
lower angle of the wings. On the underside the fore-wings are black,
with several steely blue lines, the red band across the centre being
clearly defined. The apex of the wings is brownish yellow, marked with
white. The hind-wings are most beautifully variegated with steely blue,
black, and buff. The antennæ are long and slender, abruptly forming a
knot at the end, which is tipped with white. The larva is dusky green
in colour, with a yellow line running down its back and sides; it is
sparingly coloured with short stubby hairs, and is found gregariously
on the nettle-leaf. Gold spots are freely sprinkled over the brown
chrysalis. The caterpillar stage lasts five or six weeks, the butterfly
appearing in another three or four. The larva suspends itself by the
tail, often wrapping itself in a nettle-leaf, on which it feeds. If the
pupa is gathered from the nettles for breeding, it should be fastened
in the cage in the same position, head downwards. Disappointment is
often experienced in the number of butterflies that emerge from the
chrysalis state, so many being attacked by ants, &c.

The caterpillars are found gregariously with the Callirhoe, which is
the commonest species of Pyrameis found in the Islands. Among many
reared, three only proved to be Atalanta butterflies. It is found in
Teneriffe from January to June.


PYRAMEIS CALLIRHOE, or VULCANIA.

PLATE III.--FIG. 6.

This is the most common butterfly of the Pyrameis genus found in the
Islands. It is similar in colouring to the last described, but it has a
much broader red oblique indented stripe on the fore-wings. The white
apical markings are not so many or large, and it has no blue spots on
the tips of the fore-wings.

The habits and locality of the caterpillar and chrysalis are so like
those of the Atalanta, that description is not needed.

In rearing many specimens, two butterflies proved to have bright yellow
on the hind-wings in place of the red band. Whether they are a distinct
variety or not, cannot at present be positively stated.[5]

[5] See Appendix C.


PYRAMEIS CARDUI.

PLATE II.--FIG. 5.

This insect, which is the English Painted Lady, might at first sight
be taken for a faded Atalanta. The caterpillar lives generally solitary
on hollyhock, nettle, or mallow, curling itself up in a leaf It is of a
grey-brown colour, thickly sprinkled with hairs, a yellow line fringed
by reddish dots runs along each side. It is found in most localities
up to a considerable elevation, from February till well on into the
summer. The butterfly is of a tawny red colour, shading off to brown
at the base of the fore-wings, with dark markings and oblong black
spots. The apex of the wings is marked and edged in white, similar to
the Atalanta. The hind-wings are of the same tawny red colour, having
a line of five round black spots running along each lower margin.
The fore-wings are marked on the under-side as above, the colour,
however, being redder. The hind-wings are pale buff, olive brown, and
white, having four or five blue-black eyes near the lower margin, the
two centre eyes being smaller than the others, which are circled by
black and white. Its flight is very swift, and its erratic and rapid
gyrations from side to side make it a difficult specimen to net.


PYRAMEIS v. HUNTERA.

PLATE II.--FIG. 4.

This is a scarce variety in Teneriffe of the butterfly just described.
It is commonly found in America, and some few insects have been taken
in England. It is similar in colouring to the Cardui, but somewhat
brighter. The flight of the insect is steadier, and this, together
with the brightness in colour, distinguishes it from others of the
same family when seen flying in company. It is found in barrancos and
gardens, and has been netted in a locality about 600 feet above the sea
near Orotava, together with the last two butterflies described. All
three specimens were seen flitting in company, the Callirhoe and Cardui
predominating in number, with a few specimens of the Huntera dispersed
among them. The upper surface is brick-red, marked with black, the
fore-wings having a dark apical patch, with several white spots. The
hind-wings have five blue spots, encircled by black, near the lower
margin. Beneath, the fore-wings are of a most beautiful red colour,
interspersed with black, grey-brown, and white, and having two eyes on
the apex. The hind-wings are of a lovely grey-brown tinge, liberally
veined with white, having a whitish uneven band down the centre. This
band has two large eyes, with blue centres outside it. On the edge of
the wings three grey-blue lines are seen, making the tout ensemble a
most exquisite reverse, and the greatest contrast to the upper surface.
It is usually found from April to August. Though faded and small
specimens were found earlier, the beauty of the insect is not seen till
April. The caterpillar is brown, sparingly covered with hairs, and has
bright red spots down its sides. It is rather larger than the Cardui
larva.


PARARGE XIPHIOIDES.

PLATE III.--FIG. 5.

This is not an English butterfly, though it is somewhat similar to the
Speckled Wood Argus (Parage Ægeria). It is very commonly found in the
Islands in most localities up to three or four thousand feet above the
sea. It measures in expanse from two and a half to three inches. Those
found early in the year are of a smaller and duller colour than those
netted later on. It is of a rich brown colour, the fore-wings being
freely marked with orange-yellow spots. The hind-wings are plentifully
feathered at the base, and have a long dash of yellow down them, with
three dark eyes near the margin, which is scalloped with faint white.
The under-side of the fore-wings is lighter in colour than the surface,
though similar in markings. The hind-wings are of a uniform olive-brown
shade, with a long uneven silvery stripe half-way down the centre.
There is no very decided knob on the end of the antennæ, which only
thicken slightly towards the end.


EPINEPHELE HISPULLA, or FORTUNATA (Alph.).

This brown butterfly resembles the English Large Meadow Brown (E.
Janira), but is of a richer colour and larger size, measuring in
expanse about two and a half to three inches. The female, which differs
largely from the male in colour and markings, is of an ashy-brown
colour, the fore-wings being orange-tawny, leaving only an uneven
marginal band of grey-brown. There is an apical eye of black, with
a small white centre. The hind-wings are ashy-grey, with a marginal
orange-tawny band. The body and base of the lower wings are freely
feathered. The under-side is similar in colouring, only lighter;
the apical eyes are more strongly marked; the hind-wings are of an
orange-brown tint, the orange band being slightly defined on this side.
The male has no orange-tawny markings on the surface, only a slight
shade of yellow being seen on the fore-wings, shimmering through the
uniform brown colour of the insect. There is a small black eye, with a
white central dot on the apex of each fore-wing. On the under-side the
fore-wings of the male are orange-tawny, the black eye being larger and
more pronounced than on the surface. The hind-wings of the male are of
a uniform olive-brown colour. It is found in barrancos, meadows and
rough places, from the coast up to a moderately high altitude, from
April to September; the male appears first in the greatest numbers,
and towards June the female is also found in great quantities. The
caterpillar has not been observed.


HIPPARCHIA STATILINUS.

PLATE II.--FIG. 7.

This is a brown butterfly common in many parts of Southern and Central
Europe, though not found in England. It is a rare insect in Teneriffe,
and is only met with high up in the mountains, chiefly at Vilaflor, and
on the south part of the island, about July and August. It measures in
expanse from two to three inches, and is of a uniform brown colour,
having a few white markings, which vary much in different specimens,
on the fore-wings. Two large brown spots are seen at the outer margin
of each fore-wing, interspersed with small white spots. The hind-wings
are brown, shading to lighter colour at the base. The under-side is
prettily mottled, and streaked with grey-brown, the two dark spots seen
on the margin being well defined. The larva and chrysalis have not been
observed.


HESPERIA ACTÆON.

PLATE II.--FIG. 8.

This is a small Skipper, the only member of this family found in
Teneriffe. It resembles the English Lulworth Skipper, and frequents
damp places near the water-courses, though somewhat partial and scarce.
In a limited spot near Orotava it has been found in quantities; and at
Tacoronti, where butterflies abound, some have been taken. The whole
surface is of an orange-bronze colour with slight brown markings.
The antennæ are short and club-like; the head is large, and the body
thickish. It is found from April till June, but solitary specimens are
sometimes met with earlier in the year.




LIST OF BUTTERFLIES FOUND IN TENERIFFE.


       NAME OF BUTTERFLY.                        REMARKS ON LOCALITIES, ETC.

 * 1 Pieris Cheiranthi                         Only in Canary Islands.
 * 2 Pieris  Wollastoni                        Canary Islands and Madeira.
   3 Pieris  Rapæ                              England (Common White).
   4 Pieris  Daplidice                         England; rare (Bath White).
 * 5 Euchloë Charlonia                         Not in England; N. and W. Africa.
   6 Aporia Cratægi                            England; rare (Black-veined White).
 * 7 Rhodocera Cleobule                        Not in England; peculiar to the Islands.
 * 8 Colias Edusa                              England (Clouded Yellow).
 * 9 Colias  v. Helice                         England; rare.
  10 Lycæna Bætica                             England; very rare (Tailed Blue).
 *11 Lycæna  Webbiana                          Only in Canary Islands.
  12 Lycæna  Lysimon                           Not in England.
 *13 Lycæna  Astrarche v. Æstiva               Not in England.
  14 Polyommatus or Chrysophanus Phlæas        England (Common Copper).
  15 Thecla Rubi                               England (Green Hair Streak).
 *16 Danais Plexippus (formerly Archippus)     England; very rare.
 *17 Danais     Chrysippus                     Not in England.
 *18 Danais     Alcippoides                    Not in England.
  19 Danais     Dorippus                       Not in England.
 *20 Argynnis Maia (Cram), or Pandora          In Canary Islands, N. Africa, and S. Europe.
 *21 Argynnis Lathonia                         England; rare (Queen of Spain Fritillary).
 *22 Pyrameis (formerly Vanessa) Atalanta      England (Red Admiral).
 *23 Pyrameis Callirhoe or Vulcania            Not in England.
 *24 Pyrameis Cardui                           England (Painted Lady).
 *25 Pyrameis   v. Huntera                     England; very rare; common in America.
 *26 Pararge Xiphiodes                         Not in England.
  27 Epinephele Hispulla or Fortunata (Alph.)  Not in England.
 *28 Hipparchia Statilinus                     Not in England.
 *29 Hesperia Actæon                           England; local (Lulworth Skipper).


  * Marked thus are illustrated.




  Part II.

  MOTHS.


  ACHERONTIA ATROPOS.

  PLATE IV.--FIG. 1.

  This is the largest moth found in the Canary Islands,
  known as the Death’s Head, very rarely met with in
  England.

  It measures from five to six inches in expanse. The
  ground-colour of the fore-wings is brown, varied with
  zig-zag lines of whitish yellow and light brown. There
  is a white dot in the centre of each, and they are
  dusted all over with minute white dots. The hind-wings
  are orange, with two black marginal bands on
  the lower edge. The head is dark brown or black,
  marked with a pale-brown skull. The body is orange,
  with a longitudinal band of bluish grey down the centre,
  increasing in width towards the base. Six bands of
  black, broadest near the head, cross the body. The
  antennæ are rather short and thick, tipped with white.
  The caterpillar measures about four inches in length,
  and is of a most gorgeous green and yellow colour,
  alternate transverse bands of these colours running
  along the sides. It has eight small eyes in a line
  below the transverse bands, and a horn on its tail. It
  feeds on the potato, the pupa making a cell for itself
  underground, and appearing in the largest numbers
  between May and July; but as a fresh crop of potatoes
  is planted every three months in the Canaries, the
  caterpillars are found in small numbers all the year
  round.

  When bred in captivity the pupa is delicate, quite
  five out of ten dying in their cases.


  SPHINX CONVOLVULI or BATATÆ.

  This moth is found in England, and all over Europe.
  It is a large moth, measuring about five inches across
  the wings. All four wings are of a variegated grey-brown
  colour, the body having a longitudinal grey
  stripe, increasing in width at the base, and five stripes
  of pink and black across it alternately. The antennæ
  are somewhat longer and more slender than those of
  the Death’s Head moth. They are feathered, and grey
  in colour, terminating in a sharp point. The insect is
  provided with a very long proboscis, which one sees it
  inserting into the centre of the flowers at dusk. During
  the winter months it is met with commonly in some
  years. The caterpillar, which measures four inches in
  length, feeds on the sweet potato in the fields, and on
  the petunia and phlox in gardens. It is of a brown-grey
  colour, shading to green on the back, having
  black longitudinal stripes along the back, and transverse
  black and white stripes surmounted by white
  spots at the sides. It is a night-feeder, hiding itself
  under the leaves or in the ground at day-time, and
  constructing the pupa-case underground. It is delicate
  and difficult to rear in captivity, like the Atropos.


  DEILEPHILA TITHYMALI.

  PLATE IV.--FIG. 4.

  This beautiful moth is peculiar to the Canary Islands,
  although allied species are found over the greater
  part of Europe.[6] It expands from three to three and
  a half inches. The fore-wings are silvery grey in
  colour, having dark olive-grey markings, and a long
  stripe of this colour, increasing in width towards the
  body, from the apex to the base. The hind-wings are
  a rich pink, having a marginal band of dark brown, and
  a fine white line on the outer edge. The antennæ,
  which are white, are thick and feathered. The head
  and body, thickly feathered with white, are of an olive
  brown colour. Two bands of black cross the top of
  the abdomen, which tapers off to a point, with bands of
  alternate white and olive brown slightly marked with
  black. The caterpillar is easily found on the Euphorbia
  where it feeds gregariously. It is a beautiful dark pink,
  the horn being of this colour. The dark pink is interspersed
  with dusky green and greyish black spots, and
  the caterpillar, when at full size, attains a length of
  about four inches. It is found from January till the
  end of May, but in the greatest numbers in April,
  whilst the Euphorbia is in its prime. The road-side
  between Rambla and Icod is a particularly favoured
  spot. About one or two inches of dried earth prepared
  as already mentioned are required for the larva to
  make its slight case in, though when in a natural state
  it buries itself much deeper, and the pupa is difficult
  to find. Some were fed and reared on a species of
  milk-wort. They thrived, but eventually turned into
  small moths of a paler colour than usual. The pupa
  varies much in the time of turning to the moth stage,
  according to the weather,--from six weeks, the usual
  time, to three months. Some caterpillars obtained in
  January did not become moths till the end of March;
  others taken at full growth on March 15th effected
  their last change to the moth during the last week in
  April and first week in May. The pupa when it first
  turns is of a beautiful shaded green colour with yellowish
  markings, but it changes to a uniform brown in
  a few days. The caterpillar is sometimes affected by
  a disease which consists of a small red fungus growing
  on the body, generally towards the tail. One small
  brood was entirely lost from this disease, which seemed
  to be contagious. As a rule, however, the larvæ are
  easy to keep, and the chrysalides hatch well and strongly.
  When numbers are kept, an old wine-case should be
  substituted for the smaller breeding-cages already mentioned,
  the mosquito-netting being used in the same
  way. A little sun is beneficial to them every day in
  the morning. When kept too long in the sun, however,
  they cease to feed, although when in a natural
  state sunny localities are most favoured. They are not
  night-feeders only.

  [6] See Appendix D.

  CHŒROCAMPA CELERIO.

  PLATE IV.--FIG. 2.

  (_Sharp Winged Hawk-Moth._)

  This beautiful moth is somewhat allied to the last described,
  the colour being similar, but the body is longer
  and more tapering. It is found in England, and in most
  countries where the vine grows, on which it feeds. The
  fore-wings are greyish brown with a silvery grey stripe
  from the apex to the base; the outer lower margin is
  bordered by a similar stripe. The hind-wings are of a
  rosy pink colour, veined with, and having a marginal
  band of brown. The body is feathered, and has a series
  of five short silver streaks down each side. The antennæ
  are greyish white, not so long as those of the Tithymali.
  From three to four inches is the length of the beautiful
  bright green caterpillar. This has two dark and two
  light spots on its head, and a horn on its tail. A faint
  yellow longitudinal line runs along each side. It is
  rather liable to the attacks of the ichneumon fly, and
  so it is as well to search for the eggs before putting it
  aside for rearing. This year (1893) some were found in
  April, this being unusually early, as it does not appear
  generally till June, from which date until August it is
  very commonly met with in the vineyards. The pupa
  lies in a dormant state for four weeks, and then turns to
  the moth freely and strongly.


  MACROGLOSSA STELLATARUM.

  (_Humming Bird Hawk-Moth._)

  This moth is common in England and most parts of
  Europe. Its fore-wings are brown, with faint longitudinal
  lines of a darker shade; the hind-wings are orange
  tawny, fringed with light brown. It measures in expanse
  about two inches. The head and body are brown,
  the abdomen spotted with black and white, rather
  liberally feathered. The antennæ are brown, being
  thinnest at the base, and gradually thickening to the
  extremity. It is seen in the daytime, as well as evening
  hovering, with an ever-restless motion of the wing, over
  flowers. The caterpillar is green, with a longitudinal
  white stripe, and a faint yellow one under the spiracles.
  The time of its appearance is from March to September,
  but it is seen about in greatest numbers in June.


  RHYPARIOIDES RUFESCENS.

  PLATE IV.--FIG. 5.

  This pretty moth is peculiar to the Islands, measuring
  rather more than two inches across the wings. It is
  red in colour, the hind-wings being brighter than the
  fore-wings. These latter are marked with longitudinal
  dark stripes in the female, dark spots being substituted for
  the stripes in the male. The head is dark red, shading off
  to lighter red on the richly-feathered body. The antennæ
  are red, being thicker and more feathered in the male than
  the female. The caterpillars are brown, thickly covered
  with long silky hairs, and are found mostly in barrancos,
  feeding on the dock and sorrel singly. They are also
  found in gardens, feeding somewhat indiscriminately on
  cabbage or hollyhock. When kept in captivity they can
  be reared on cabbage, and after attaining their full size
  of about one and a half inches, they make a slight hairy
  cocoon under a thin covering of earth. The caterpillar
  stage lasts about twenty days. They are found in
  January and hibernate in the pupa state till well on in
  the summer, sometimes as late as October or November,
  though some taken in January were brought to England
  and turned to moths on the 24th of June following.
  After being kept for a time the chrysalides become a
  very dark brown, almost black, so that there is a temptation
  to throw them away as dead, since they show
  so little life; but on opening the hard, stick-like skin,
  the creature is found to be quite fresh.


  DASYCHIRA FORTUNATA.

  PLATE IV.--Fig. 11.

  In colour a dull grey moth. The fore-wings are ash-coloured,
  variegated with whitish on the upper side. The
  reniform spot is rust-coloured in the male and whitish
  in the female. The transverse lines are black and
  dentated, the submarginal line maculated. The hind-wings
  are grey, with a slight lunule in the middle; the
  underside uniform grey. The body is less stout than
  the D. Fascelina (Linn.). The abdomen is long in the
  male and longer in the female. The antennæ are pectinated
  in the male, simple in the female. The legs are
  thickly clothed with hair, the feet yellowish beneath.
  Although the caterpillar has not been described, it presumably
  has much the same characteristics as its allies,
  and is probably greyish, with tufts of hair on its back;
  it feeds on the Pinus Canariensis.

  This moth is allied to the English, and European
  species Dasychira Fascelina (Dark Tussock), but is
  probably peculiar to the Islands. It has been described
  as being found in the Islands of Palma and Hiero by
  Rogenhofer in the “Verhandlungen des Kaiserlich-Königlichen
  Zoologisch-botanischen Gesellschaft in
  Wien,”  vol. 41 (for 1891), p. 566. The specimen
  illustrated was drawn from one of two presented to the
  South Kensington Museum by the Rev. O. E. Benthall,
  who found the chrysalides on trunks of the Canary pine
  near Guimar, Teneriffe, about 2,000 feet above the sea,
  and as far as the author can ascertain it has not before
  been recorded as occurring in Teneriffe.


  DEIOPEIA PULCHELLA.

  PLATE IV.--FIG. 9.

  This beautiful little moth, expanding about one and
  a half inches, is a very rare insect in Teneriffe at the
  present time, though two or three years ago it was
  found in great abundance near, and along, the coast
  during the spring months.[7] It has yellowish white
  fore-wings freely spotted with black, alternated with
  oblong red spots, not so numerous. The hind-wings
  are pearl-white, having a small blackish brown spot
  towards the top, and a marginal indented border of
  the same colour. The thorax and head are speckled
  with black and yellow. The body is light pearl-grey.
  The larva is dark grey with a broad white stripe on the
  back and reddish streaks on the sides. This species is
  abundant throughout Africa, the South of Asia and
  Europe, but a very scarce insect in England. Don
  Ramon Gomez kindly supplied the specimen illustrated.

  [7] A single specimen was taken by the Rev. O. E. Benthall
  at Guimar in 1893.


  PSEUDOPHIA TIRHACA (Cram); wrongly called
  TYRRHÆA.

  PLATE IV.--FIG. 3.

  This is not an English species, but is met with in
  Europe and North Africa. It is not very commonly found
  in Teneriffe. The fore-wings are green, with a central
  reddish-brown spot, the outer margin having an indented
  band of the same colour. The body and hind-wings,
  richly feathered, are a beautiful straw yellow, the latter
  having a dark brown graduated band near the lower
  margin. It expands about two inches and a half. The
  larva is grey, with a pale grey stripe on the sides, and
  black spots on the lower surface between the pro-legs.


  CALOCAMPA EXOLETA.

  (_Sword-Grass Moth._)

  This moth is an English species. It measures in
  expanse between two and three inches, and is of a
  soft violet grey tinge, the fore-wings having a variety
  of brown markings. The caterpillar feeds on the
  Euphorbia, and has been found gregariously with the
  Tithymali on that plant. It is met with, however, on
  peas and potatoes, and can be reared on the leaves of
  any of these plants. The larva is bright green, with
  two lines of black and white spots down each side of the
  back. These are bordered by a yellow stripe (sometimes,
  however, absent), and it has a broken red line on each
  side. The caterpillar attains a length of about three
  inches. Some were kept in the same breeding cage with
  the Tithymali, but their habits were entirely different.
  When the Exoleta caterpillar ceased to feed, it did not
  immediately attain the pupa state, but was restless and
  lively, remaining as a caterpillar from six to eight weeks,
  gradually shrinking and losing its colour, until it turned
  to the pupa. It made a fragile shell of fine earth, oval
  in form, and buried itself a short distance under the
  surface. Full-sized caterpillars, taken on the 20th of
  March, ceased feeding and turned to the pupa state
  from the 1st to the 20th of May, emerging to the moth
  on the 15th of June. In some specimens the process
  of turning to the pupa took place on the journey to
  England in a box, the caterpillars being covered lightly
  with cotton-wool.


  TRIPHÆNA PRONUBA.

  (_Common Yellow Underwing._)

  This is a common moth in England and Europe, but is
  rather a scarce species in Teneriffe. It expands a little
  more than two inches. The fore-wings are dark brown,
  having a few irregular markings of a lighter shade.
  The hind-wings are bright yellow, with a dark brown
  marginal band on the lower edge. The body is a somewhat
  lighter brown, and the antennæ are long and fine.
  The caterpillar is brown, and it feeds on a variety of
  low-growing plants in the barrancos, and may also be found
  on the potato. It commences to appear in the early
  spring.


  PLUSIA AURIFERA.

  PLATE IV.--FIG. 6.

  This moth is closely allied to the Chrysitis, which is
  found in England, differing, however, in the shape of
  the gold markings.[8] The fore-wings have a bright
  golden marginal band of varying width across them,
  from the apex to the base. It is found in rough places,
  and can be easily netted when hovering over clover-flowers
  or similar low-growing herbage at dusk. The
  hind-wings are grey-brown, shading off to a lighter tint
  towards the body. The antennæ are long and fine.
  The caterpillar feeds on the tobacco-plant, and is found
  in barrancos, but it is most usually met with on potato-plants;
  it envelops itself in a leaf, drawing it together
  with silk-like threads, and so forming a case in which it
  turns to the chrysalis. It is found very nearly all the
  year round, but is met with in greatest numbers during
  the spring months.

  [8] Alpheraky describes the Indian variety Chrysitina as a
  Teneriffe moth.


  PLUSIA TRIPARTITA (Hufn.) URTICÆ (Hübn).

  Known in England as the Spectacle Moth. It is met
  with in the day-time as well as at dusk, like many
  others of the genus Plusia. Its fore-wings are dark
  grey, varied with greenish-white in the basal and marginal
  areas; the sub-terminal line is marked below the
  costa with black arrow-heads in front, and is bordered
  with deep black behind. It is common in the greater
  part of Europe and Northern Asia. The larva, which
  is greenish brown, has two white lines on the back, and
  slender white and green lines along each side above the
  feet. It feeds on nettle.


  PLUSIA CIRCUMFLEXA.

  Similar somewhat to the English Gamma, or silver Y
  moth, but a distinct variety, and found largely in Europe.
  The fore-wings are dark ashy-grey, with bronze
  markings, and have a pale golden mark in the middle
  resembling the letter r. The hind-wings are brown, of
  a lighter shade towards the base. It measures in expanse
  about two inches; the antennæ are long and fine.
  The larva, which is green with a yellowish stripe at the
  sides, feeds on the potato and other low-growing plants,
  and is found during the early spring months, and well
  on into the summer.


  PLUSIA ERIOSOMA.

  This is the fourth species described here of the large
  genus Plusia. It is a much brighter golden-brown
  colour than the last described specimen, measuring about
  one and a half inches across the wings. The fore-wings
  are golden-brown, having two distinct gold spots about
  the centre. The hind are of the same tint as the fore-wings,
  darker at the margin, and shading off lighter
  towards the base. It is found in India, but is not a
  European species.


  HELIOTHIS ARMIGERA.

  This is a very rare moth in England, but is found
  over the greater part of the world. It expands about
  one and a half inches.

  The fore-wings are a brownish yellow, with darker
  indistinct markings. The hind-wings are lighter yellow
  in colour, with a dark semi-lunar spot in the middle,
  and have a dark marginal border. The antennæ are long
  and fine. The caterpillar was found on the potato-plant
  and proved to be one of the cannibal species. It fed
  occasionally on the food provided, but seemed generally
  to prefer its companions in captivity, feeding at night,
  and so had to be separated from them. The larva is
  reddish brown in colour, with a yellowish stripe on the
  sides, and it is very commonly found in Teneriffe during
  the early spring months.


  HELIOTHIS DIPSACEA.

  This is a small moth, about one to one and a half inches
  in expanse, and found throughout the greater part of
  Europe, Northern and Western Asia, and North Africa.
  It frequents high ground in the spring and summer,
  living in rough places and in clover-fields. The fore-wings
  are of light olive-brown shade, with dark markings
  across them. The hind-wings are dark olive-brown,
  fringed with yellow, and having two large yellow uneven
  spots about the centre, with a similar one on the brown
  margin. The body is stout, the antennæ long and fine.
  The larva is green or rust-colour, with white lines on
  the back and sides.


  PRODENIA LITTORALIS.

  A moth, expanding about one inch and a half, found
  in Africa, but not in England. It has brown-grey fore-wings,
  with opalescent markings. The hind-wings are
  of a shining opalescent white. The larva is brown, feeds
  on the potato-plant, and appears during the early spring.
  The moths are seen a month or six weeks later; those
  bred in captivity appear simultaneously with those out
  of doors.


  PERIDROMA SAUCIA.

  Rather a fine moth, inhabiting Europe, though not
  found in England. It expands about two inches or
  more. The fore-wings are dark brown, sometimes
  suffused with a reddish tinge at the upper margin.
  The hind-wings are of a greyish pearl-white colour,
  veined with brown, with a brown shade fringing the
  margins. The larva is greyish-brown, and feeds on the
  potato-plant, where it is found during the late winter
  and early spring. The average time for turning from
  the larva to the moth stage is from six to eight weeks.


  TARACHE LUCIDA.

  PLATE IV.--FIG. 8.

  This is a small moth, not very commonly found in
  Teneriffe. It is met with by day along the coast, and
  up to an altitude of 2000 feet or more in rough rocky
  places, in April and up to June or July. The prevailing
  colour is a blue-grey. The fore-wings have a large
  square patch of white on the upper margin, and a
  smaller dot of the same colour towards the middle. The
  hind-wings are fringed with white, and have two or
  three patches of the same colour along their margins.
  In the male, the white on both wings is increased
  towards the base. It is not an English species, but is
  found in Europe and along the Mediterranean. The
  larva is a green or brownish grey, with three dark
  double lines on the thoracic segments; tufted, and with
  a white line on the back on segments 5 to 7, and with a
  dark stripe on the back, and a whitish line on the sides
  of the remaining segments.


  STERRHA SACRARIA.

  A pretty little moth, about one inch in expanse, commonly
  found in the Canary Islands. It is widely
  dispersed over Europe and Asia, and is a rare inhabitant
  of England. The fore-wings are sulphur-yellow, tinged
  with bright red at the apex, and having a red line
  running from the tip to the middle of the inner margin.
  The hind-wings are pale yellowish white. It frequents
  rough places among short herbage, and is found on
  and near the coast in the early spring and during the
  summer. The larva is green, with a paler line on the
  back, and a yellowish line on the sides. Spiracles red.
  It feeds on low-growing plants.


  OMMOTOSTOLA SACCHARI.

  A pale buff moth, measuring in expanse about two
  inches. The specimen described was netted at Guimar,
  Teneriffe, in May. It is somewhat common. The fore-wings
  and body are buff, the latter being rather richly
  feathered. The hind-wings are cream-white; the
  antennæ are rather thick, of a medium length. It is
  not an inhabitant of Europe. The larva has not been
  observed.


  HYPENA OBSITALIS.

  Not an English moth, but an inhabitant of South
  Europe, North Africa, and Asia. It measures in expanse
  about one inch. The fore-wings are brown, varied with
  pale yellow and black markings. The hind-wings are
  grey, shading lighter at the base. It makes its appearance
  in the spring, and is very commonly found in
  dwelling-houses or surrounding out-houses in the evening.
  The larva is green, with a white stripe on the sides.


  HYPENA LIVIDALIS.

  A smaller moth than the last specimen described.
  The fore-wings are olive-brown, violet-grey towards the
  margins. The two colours are separated by an oblique
  whitish line from the apex to the middle of the inner
  margin. The hind-wings are grey, shading off lighter to
  the base, and are veined with brown. It is not an
  English species, but is very commonly found in Teneriffe,
  on rough ground, among cactus, &c., in the early
  spring, at no great distance from the coast. It inhabits
  South Europe, North Africa, and Western Asia.


  OMPHACODES DIVINCTA.

  PLATE IV.--FIG. 7.

  A pretty little sea-green moth (geometra) found in
  South Africa, but very rarely met with in Teneriffe. It
  was netted in a rough place among cactus-plants in
  April at dusk, about 500 feet above the sea level. It
  measures about one inch in expanse; the fore-wings and
  upper part of the body are of a beautiful bright sea-green
  colour when first netted, but the insect quickly
  fades. The hind-wings are paler green, and all four
  wings are fringed with white. The antennæ are short
  and slightly feathered.

  This moth had not figured in any collection of
  Teneriffe moths as far as the author could ascertain.
  No observations have been made on the larvæ and pupæ.


  ASPILATES COLLINARIA. (Holt-White.)

  PLATE IV.--FIG. 10 (Female).

  This moth is allied to the Aspilates Gilvaria, but is
  probably an insect peculiar to the Canaries. It measures
  in expanse about one inch. It is of a pale buff-colour,
  the female being of a much intenser shade than
  the male. The hind-wings in both sexes are much
  lighter in colour than the fore-wings. The fore-wings
  of the female have a slate-blue narrow band of colour,
  extending from near the apex to the base of the
  upper margin, forming a semicircle. Within the
  semicircle, and near the upper margin, is a small
  slate-blue dot. The hind-wings have also a band of
  varying width and of the same colour extending across
  them, and a slate-blue dot is seen near the top of the
  upper margin above the slate band. The male has
  similar markings, but they are much paler, and not
  nearly so well defined. The antennæ of the male are
  feathered, of medium length; those of the female are
  longer and finer. At first sight this moth might be
  deemed a variety of Sterrha Sacraria. The female was
  taken at Guimar about 1000 feet above the sea.
  Several male specimens were taken near Orotava, at a
  somewhat higher altitude. This moth, being unknown
  at South Kensington, has been named as above by the
  author.


  BRYOPHILA var. RAVULA (Hübn).

  A small moth, about one inch in expanse, with a
  slender body. The fore-wings are dark brown, with
  the base, tip, and inner margin whitish. The centre of
  the wings is suffused with red, and two transverse lines
  of darker colour cross them. The larva is blue with a
  black line on the back and a zigzag yellowish-red stripe
  on the sides, bordered below with black. It feeds on
  lichens growing on walls. It is not a British species,
  but is met with in Southern Europe.


  BRYOPHILA ALGÆ (Fabr.).

  This is a small moth, with the same characteristics as
  to size and form as the last described. The fore-wings
  are green, varied with brown and blackish in the
  position of the claviform stigma. It has dark transverse
  lines, and the hind-wings are brownish grey.
  The larva is bluish-grey, with a grey stripe on the back.
  It feeds on lichen, and inhabits Central and Southern
  Europe, and Western Asia, but is a great rarity in
  England.


  AGROTIS SPINIFERA (Hübn).

  This is a moth somewhat larger than the last-described,
  with rather a stout body. It is fawn-colour, the abdomen
  pale-brown, and the margin of the fore-wings
  has several black spots. The hind-wings are whitish.
  It inhabits South-Western Europe, but is not met with
  in England.


  SESAMIA NONAGRIOIDES (Lef.).

  The body of this moth is stout, the fore-wings are
  nearly rectangular at the tips, without any distinct
  pattern. The antennæ and tongue are short. The
  fore-wings are greyish-yellow with a black discal spot,
  and an outer row of black dots. The hind-wings are
  white. It inhabits Spain, North Africa, and Madeira,
  but is not a British species. The larva lives on the
  stalks of maize, corn, and sugar-cane.


  ACIDALIA CONSOLIDATA.

  One of the large genus of Acidalia, a small and
  delicate moth. The wings are yellowish-white, finely
  dusted with black. The fore-wings have five and the
  hind-wings four brownish yellow transverse bands. It
  expands about one inch. It is not a British species.


  ZONOSOMA PUPILLARIA (Hübn).

  A small moth, with the tips of the fore-wings pointed.
  The wings are greyish yellow, finely and indistinctly
  speckled with purplish brown, with a small brown
  central spot centred with white, a row of black dots
  beyond the middle, and often a dull red, zigzag central
  shade also. This is a very variable species, inhabiting
  S. Europe, W. Asia, and N. Africa, but is not an inhabitant
  of England. The larva is very variable in
  colour, being dull green, brown, or reddish. It feeds on
  the cistus, arbutus, myrtle, etc.


  TEPHRONIA SEPIARIA (Hufn).

  A small moth, with narrow fore-wings, expanding
  about one inch. The fore-wings are ashy-grey, finely
  dusted with a darker shade. The hind-wings are paler,
  with two dark marginal bands. It is met with in
  Central and Southern Europe, but is very rare in
  Britain. The larva is brownish grey, with a paler
  line and two rows of pale spots on the back.


  EUPITHECIA PUMILATA (Hübn).

  The fore-wings are pointed, reddish grey in colour,
  and bordered by a brownish-red band. The larva is
  pale yellowish-green, with dark green or reddish-violet
  lines on the back, and a paler line on its sides. It
  feeds on the flowers of a great variety of plants, such
  as clematis, broom, convolvulus. It is widely distributed
  in Central and Southern Europe and W. Asia,
  but is not an inhabitant of Britain.




  LIST OF MOTHS FOUND IN TENERIFFE.


         NAME OF MOTH.                REMARKS ON LOCALITIES, ETC.

          _Sphinges._

  *1 Acherontia Atropos           England (Death’s Head).
   2 Sphinx Convolvuli            England (Convolvulus Hawk-moth).
  *3 Deilephila Tithymali         Peculiar to the Islands.
  *4 Chœrocampa Celerio           England  (Sharp-winged Hawk-moth).
   5 Macroglossa Stellatarum      England (Humming-bird Hawk-moth).

          _Bombyces._

  *6 Deiopeia Pulchella           European. England; rare.
  *7 Rhyparioides Rufescens       Peculiar to the Islands.
  *8 Dasychira Fortunata          Peculiar to the Islands.

           _Noctuæ._

   9 Bryophila Ravula             Not in England.
  10 Bryophila Algae              England; rare.
  11 Sesamia Nonagrioides         Spain, N. Africa, Madeira.
  12 Triphæna Pronuba             England (Common Yellow Under-wing).
  13 Agrotis Spinifera            Not in England; S.W. Europe.
  14 Peridroma Saucia             Not in England; European.
  15 Ommatostola Sacchari         Not European.
  16 Prodenia Littoralis          Not in England; S. Asia and Madagascar.
  17 Calocampa Exoleta            England (Sword-grass moth).
  18 Heliothis Armigera           England; rare (cannibal).
  19 Heliothis  Dipsacea          England.
  20 Heliaca Tenebrata            England (Small Yellow Under-wing).
  21 Plusia Circumflexa           Not in England; S. Europe.
  22 Plusia  Eriosoma             Not in England; India.
 *23 Plusia  Aurifera             Peculiar to the Islands.
  24 Plusia  Tripartita           England (Spectacle Moth.)
 *25 Tarache Lucida               England, rare; S. Europe.
 *26 Pseudophia Tirhaca           Not in England; S. Europe, N. Africa.
  27 Hypena Lividalis             Not in England; S. Europe, N. Africa.
  28 Hypena  Obsitalis            Not in England; S. Europe, N. Africa.

         _Geometridæ._

 *29 Aspilates Collinaria         Probably peculiar to the Islands.
  30 Sterrha Sacraria             England; S. Europe, Africa, and S. Asia.
 *31 Omphacodes Divincta          Not in England; South Africa.
  32 Acidalia Consolidata         Not in England; Europe.
  33 Zonosoma Pupillaria          S. Europe, W. Asia, and N. Africa.
  34 Tephronia Sepiaria           England (rare); European.
  35 Eupithecia Pumilata var.
       Tempestivata               European.

      _Micro-Lepidoptera._

  36 Botys Verbascalis            England.
  37 Botys  Polygonalis           England.
  38 Botys  Asinalis              England.
  39 Asopia Farinalis (dark form) England.
  40 Centra Stregaria (Woll.) or
       Coremia Cidaria (Staud)    Probably peculiar to the Islands.
  41 Calymnia Eerruginea (Woll.)  Probably peculiar to the Islands.

* Marked thus are illustrated.


In addition to the specimens above described, a list of twenty-one more
names of Teneriffe moths is appended, which have been written upon by
S. Alpheraky in the memoirs of N. M. Romanoff, vol. v., 1889. Several
of the insects in this list were collected by the author, but as they
were mostly very small brown or grey moths, and of but little interest
to the ordinary collector, a description of them has been omitted. The
difficulty of identification without illustration also precludes their
insertion in a work of the present character.


ALPHERAKY.

   1 Plusia Chrisitina             | 12 Crambus Tersellus
   2 Cosmophila Erosa              | 13 Cryptoblabes Gnidiella
   3 Acidalia Guancharia           | 14 Ephatia Ficulella
   4 Scoparia Sudetica             | 15 Ucetia Transversella
   5 Hellula Undalis               | 16 Ephestia Callidella
   6 Aporodes Floralis             | 17 Ephestia Elutella
   7 Botys Aurata                  | 18 Plodia Interpunctella
   8 Botys Meridionalis            | 19 Setomorpha Bogotatella
   9 Botys Ferrugalis              | 20 Litha Solanella
  10 Botys Dorcalis                | 21 Pterophorus Monodactylus
  11 Duponchelia Fovealis


APPENDIX A.


Mr. Scott Wilson, writing to the author of his visit to the Isle of
Palma, states that the Queen of Spain Fritillary (Argynnis Lathonia)
is very common in the meadows near the town of El Paso, 2000 feet
above the sea level in May. In the same month he noticed the clouded
yellow (Colias Edusa) in large numbers in the clearings amongst the
pine-woods. A few specimens of the large Fritillary (Argynnis Maia)
were secured by him at El Paso early in May, where the Vulcania was
also found; of these latter specimens only two out of one hundred
proved to be of the British form Atalanta. The Bath-white (Pieris
Daplidice) was common near Argual.

The Danais Chrysippus appeared rather uncommon, only a few specimens
being taken near the barranco Del Carmen, not far from the town of
Santa Cruz, and a few near Tijarafe.

Specimens of the small blue (Lycaena Webbiana) were taken near Argual.

In the middle of May the large white (Pieris Cheiranthi) was commonly
found on the large laurel-trees at La Galga.

The author believes that the same species of Lepidoptera are generally
distributed over all the seven islands, but that in Fuerteventura and
Lanzarote, both of which are dry, sandy, and somewhat barren islands,
they are not found in such numbers or variety. It is probable that
different species of small African moths, some of which are enumerated
on pages 93-4, may be found in Lanzarote, which is the nearest island
to the coast of Africa, and which more closely resembles it in climate
and vegetation, in greater numbers than in Teneriffe. The Euphorbia,
which grows so plentifully in most of the islands, is uncommon in
Lanzarote; hence the D. Tithymali, abundant in Teneriffe, would
be scarce in this island. The lack of water in Fuerteventura, and
consequent sparse vegetation, is doubtless the cause of the scarcity of
Lepidoptera in that island, though the interesting occurrence of the
insect “Euchlöe Charlonia,” a North and West African butterfly (which
has only once been recorded as having been observed in Teneriffe), is
accounted for by the proximity of the island in question to the African
mainland. This species probably occurs in Lanzarote, for the same
reason; it will doubtless become dispersed over the remaining islands
in time.




APPENDIX B.


Under date July, 1893, the Rev. O. E. Benthall writes:--

“As to the ‘blue’(Webbiana), I found it in abundance at Guimar about
half a mile from the coast, where the barrancos shallow down before
running into the sea.

“Most of the specimens were rather wasted, so I suppose the best time
for them would be a fortnight earlier than when we went there (April).”




APPENDIX C.


Several of the Teneriffe moths, although similar to English and
European species, assume rather a darker insular form. The Triphæna
Pronuba, Calocampa Exoleta and Asopia Farinalis are examples of this.
The Sterrha Sacraria is also met with marked with a much brighter
red than in ordinary specimens, and showing great diversity in shade
of colour, from red to almost yellow. Anyone wishing to acquire more
knowledge on this subject should refer to “Observations on some
remarkable Varieties of Sterrha Sacraria, with general notes on
Variation in Lepidoptera, by R. M. McLachlan, F.L.S.” Transactions of
the Entomological Society of London, Ser. 3, vol. ii, pp. 453-468, pl.
23.

Those who are interested in the subject, and have sufficient time and
patience, would probably be well repaid for their trouble by the
result of experiments in selecting and breeding together insects of
the same species which exhibit any slight deviation in their markings
and colour. Thus in rearing a number of the Pyrameis Callirhoe
several specimens have been observed to emerge from the chrysalis
state with bright yellow instead of red markings on the margins of
the hind-wings. The white markings on the upper wings also varied
somewhat. The Pyrameis family would possibly lend itself freely to the
production of new varieties. The Danais Chrysippus is another species
of butterfly which presents itself for experiment. By selecting the
lighter hind-wing variety, Alcippoides, for breeding, perhaps the
Alcippus, which hitherto has not been found in Teneriffe, might be
produced. Among the smaller butterflies, the Chrysophanus Phlœas, and
the Astrarche var. Aestiva have both shown deviation in colour and
markings, but these are much smaller, and consequently more difficult
to rear. Moreover, they would not lend such an interest to the subject
as the larger specimens.

In the moths, the Deilephila Tithymali caterpillars, if fed on a
species of milk-wort, evince a slight variety in colouring and size of
moths as compared with those fed on Euphorbia. They must, however, be
fed on the plant from the earliest stage, as they only thrive on the
food to which they have been accustomed from the first. Some of the
earliest specimens are occasionally found on the milk-wort, the eggs
having been deposited thereon. Those found in January are more likely
to thrive on this food than those met with later on, as the Euphorbia,
on which they generally feed, is not in its prime till the early spring.

Great care, patience, and time are required for these most interesting
experiments, but the natural advantages of the climate of Teneriffe
would greatly facilitate any efforts made, as the variation in
temperature is so slight, and consequently the breeding process can be
carried on nearly all the year round. Experiments of this nature, which
might pleasantly be made by those with whom time might otherwise pass
slowly in Teneriffe, would probably prove of distinct value to students
of Biology.




APPENDIX D.


The “Deilephila Daucus,” allied to “Lineata,” a North American species,
is said to occur in Teneriffe, but the author has not seen a specimen.
If such a species is really found in the island, it is more probably D.
Livornica, which is common in South Europe and throughout Africa, and
is found in Madeira. Either of the above species may be distinguished
from D. Tithymali by the white lines on the wings, but D. Livornica has
only four longitudinal white stripes on the thorax, whereas D. Daucus
has six. D. Livornica is a rarity in England, but is found throughout
all the warmer parts of the Old World.




ALPHABETICAL INDEX OF GENERA AND SPECIES.


[_The specific names, including varieties, are printed in italics._]

    Acherontia, 64
    Acidalia, 90
    _Actæon_, 60
    _Æstiva_, 41
    _Ægeria_, 57
    Agrotis, 89
    _Alcippoides_, 48
    _Alcippus_, 48
    _Algæ_, 89
    Aporia, 34
    Aporodes, 95
    _Archippus_, 44
    Argynnis, 49
    _Armigera_, 81
    _Asinalis_, 94
    Asopia, 94
    Aspilates, 87
    _Astrarche_, 41
    _Atalanta_, 52
    _Atropos_, 64
    _Aurata_, 95
    _Aurifera_, 78


    _Bœtica_, 38
    _Batatæ_, 65
    _Bogotatella_, 95
    Botys, 94
    Bryophila, 88


    _Callidella_, 95
    _Callirhoe_, 54
    Calocampa, 76
    Calymnia, 94
    _Cardui_, 54
    _Celerio_, 69
    Centra, 94
    _Charlonia_, 33
    _Cheiranthi_, 29
    Chœrocampa, 69
    _Chrysippus_, 46
    _Chrysitis_, 78
    _Chrysitina_, 78
    Chrysophanus, 42
    _Circumflexa_, 79
    _Cleobule_, 35
    Colias, 36
    _Collinaria_, 87
    _Consolidata_, 90
    _Convolvuli_, 65
    Cosmophila, 95
    Crambus, 95
    _Cratægi_, 34
    Cryptoblabes, 95


    Danais, 44
    _Daplidice_, 32
    Dasychira, 73
    _Daucus_, 104
    Deilephila, 67
    Deiopeia, 74
    _Dipsacea_, 81
    _Divincta_, 86
    _Dorcalis_, 95
    _Dorippus_, 49
    Duponchelia, 95


    _Edusa_, 36
    _Elutella_, 95
    Ephatia, 95
    Ephestia, 95
    Epinephele, 58
    _Eriosoma_, 80
    _Erosa_, 95
    Euchlöe, 33
    Eupithecia, 92
    _Exoleta_, 76


    _Farinalis_, 94
    _Ferrugalis_, 95
    _Ferruginea_, 94
    _Ficulella_, 95
    _Floralis_, 95
    _Fortunata_, 58, 73
    _Fovealis_, 95
    Fritillary, 49


    _Gamma_, 79
    _Gilvaria_, 87
    _Gnidiella_, 95
    _Guancharia_, 95


    _Helice_, 37
    Heliaca, 94
    Heliothis, 81
    Hellula, 95
    Hesperia, 60
    Hipparchia, 60
    _Hispulla_, 58
    _Huntera_, 56
    Hypena, 85


    _Interpunctella_, 95


    _Janira_, 58


    _Klugii_, 49


    _Lathonia_, 51
    Litha, 95
    _Littoralis_, 82
    _Lividalis_, 86
    _Livornica_, 104
    _Lucida_, 83
    Lycaena, 38
    _Lysimon_, 40


    Macroglossa, 70
    _Maia_, 49
    _Meridionalis_, 95
    _Monodactylus_, 95


    _Nonagrioides_, 90


    _Obsitalis_, 85
    Ommatostola, 85
    Omphacodes, 86


    _Pandora_, 49
    Pararge, 57
    Peridroma, 83
    _Phlæas_, 42
    Pieris, 29
    _Plexippus_, 44
    Plodia, 95
    Plusia, 78
    _Polygonalis_, 94
    Polyommatus, 42
    Prodenia, 82
    _Pronuba_, 77
    Pseudophia, 75
    Pterophorus, 95
    _Pulchella_, 74
    _Pumilata_, 92
    _Pupillaria_, 91
    Pyrameis, 52

    _Rapæ_, 31
    _Ravula_, 88
    Rhodocera, 35
    _Rubi_, 43
    _Rufescens_, 71
    Rhyparioides, 71


    _Sacchari_, 85
    _Sacraria_, 84
    _Saucia_, 83
    Scoparia, 95
    _Sepiaria_, 91
    Sesamia, 90
    Setomorpha, 95
    _Solanella_, 95
    Sphinx, 65
    _Spinifera_, 89
    _Statilinus_, 60
    Sterrha, 84
    _Stregaria_, 94
    _Sudetica_, 95


    Tarache, 83
    _Tempestivata_, 94
    _Tenebrata_, 94
    Tephronia, 91
    _Tersellus_, 95
    Thecla, 43
    _Tirhaca_, 75
    _Tirrhæa_, 75
    _Tithymali_, 67
    _Transversella_, 95
    _Tripartita_, 79
    Triphæna, 77


    Ucetia, 95

    _Undalis_, 95
    _Urticæ_, 79


    Vanessa, 20
    _Verbascalis_, 94
    _Vulcania_, 54


    _Webbiana_, 39
    _Wollastoni_, 30


    _Xiphioides_, 57


    Zonosoma, 91




DESCRIPTION OF PLATES.


PLATE I.

  FIG.

      1. Pieris Wollastoni.
      2. Pieris  Cheiranthi (under side).
      3. Rhodocera Cleobule.
      4. Euchloë Charlonia.
      5. Colias Edusa (female).
      6. Colias  var. Helice.
      7. Lycæna Webbiana (upper side).
      8. Lycæna Webbiana (under side).


PLATE II.

  FIG.

      1. Danais Plexippus.
      2. Danais Chrysippus.
      3. Danais Alcippoides.
      4. Pyrameis Huntera.
      5. Pyrameis Cardui.
      6. Lycæna Astrarche var. Aestiva.
      7. Hipparchia Statilinus.
      8. Hesperia Actæon.


PLATE III.

  FIG.

      1. Argynnis Maia or Pandora (upper side).
      2. Argynnis Maia or Pandora (under side).
      3. Argynnis Lathonia (upper side).
      4. Argynnis Lathonia   (under side).
      5. Pararge Xiphioides.
      6. Pyrameis Vulcania or Callirhoe.
      7. Pyrameis  Atalanta.


PLATE IV.

  FIG.

       1. Acherontia Atropos.
       2. Chœrocampa Celerio.
       3. Pseudophia Tirhaca.
       4. Deilephila Tithymali.
       5. Rhyparioides Rufeseens.
       6. Plusia Aurifera.
       7. Omphacodes Divincta.
       8. Tarache Lucida.
       9. Deiopeia Pulchella.
      10. Aspilates Collinaria.
      11. Dasychira Fortunata.


[Illustration:

  PLATE 1.

  A. E. Holt-White, del. R. Morgan lith.  Vincent Brooks, Day & Son Imp.

  L. Reeve & C^o. London.]


[Illustration:

 PLATE 2.

  A. E. Holt-White, del. R. Morgan lith.  Vincent Brooks, Day & Son Imp.

  L. Reeve & C^o. London.]


[Illustration:

  PLATE 3.

  A. E. Holt-White, del. R. Morgan lith.  L. Reeve & C^o. London.

  Vincent Brooks, Day & Son Imp.]


[Illustration:

  PLATE 4.

  A. E. Holt-White, del, R. Morgan lith.  Vincent Brooks, Day & Son Imp.

  L. Reeve & C^o. London.]

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BUTTERFLIES AND MOTHS OF
TENERIFFE ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
